
[0]
With this example, we see the need for fcntl.
Our program operates on a descriptor (standard output), never knowing the name of the file that was opened on that descriptor. we can't set the O_SYNC flag when the file that is opened,
since the shell opened the file. With fcntl we can modify the properties of a descriptor, knowing only the descriptor for the open file. we'll see another need for fcntl when we describe nonblocking pipes,
since all we have with a pipe is a descriptor.

[1]
the ioctl function has always been the catchall for I/O operations.
the ioctl function was included in the Single UNIX Specfication only as an extension for dealing with STREAMS devices, but it was moved to obsolescent status in SUSv4. UNIX System implementations use ioctl for many miscellaneous device operations. Some implementations have even extended it for use with regular file.

most systems ignore the specified mode, whereas others require that it be a subset of the mode used when the referenced file (standard input, in this case) was originally opened.

Beware of doing this on Linux. Because the Linux implementation uses symbolic links to the real files, using creat on a /dev/fd file will result in the underlying file being truncated.

The reason the signal handler is declared as returning an integer is that these early systems didn't support the ISO C void data type.

The problem with this code fragment is that there is a window of time --- after the signal has occurred, but before the call to signal in the signal handler --- when the interrupt signal could occur another time. This second signal would cause the default action to occur, which for this signal terminates the process.

there are times when we would like to tell the system "prevent the following signals from interrupting me, but remember if they do occur." the classic example that demonstrates this flaw is shown by a piece of code that catches a signal and sets a flag for the process that indicates that the signal occurred

Reads that can block the caller forever if data isn't present with certain file types (pipes, terminal devices, and network devices)
such as a terminal device open waiting until an attached modem answers the phone

the pause function (which by definition puts the calling process to sleep until a signal is caught) and the wait function

when a process initiates a read from a terminal device and the user at the terminal walks away from the terminal for an extended period.
the process could be blocked for hours or days and would remain so unless the system was taken down.

earlier versions gave implementations a choice of how to deal with reads and writes that have processed partial amounts of data.

Besides being reentrant, they block any signals during operation if delivery of a signal might cause inconsistencies.

[nonreentrant func.]
when the signal handler returned after several iterations the program would be terminated by a SIGSEGV signal

An examination showed that the main function had called getpwnam, but that when getpwnam called free, the signal handler interrupted it and called getpwnam, which in turn called free.

the data structures maintained by malloc and free had been corrupted when the signal handler (indirectly) called free while the main function was also calling free.

Occationally, the program would run for several seconds before crashing with a SIGSEGV error.

[n]
FreeBSD 8.0 and Max OS X 10.6.8 don't exhibit this problem, because BSD-based systems generally don't support historical System V semantics for SIGCLD.
Linux 3.2.0 also doesn't exhibit this problem, because it doesn't call the SIGCHLD signal handler when a process arranges to catxh SIGCHLD and child processes are ready to be waited for,
even though SIGCLD and SIGCHLD are defined to be the same value. Solaris 10, on the other hand, does call the signal handler in this situation, but includes extra code in the kernel to avoid this problem.

although the four platforms described in the book solve this problem, realize that platforms (such as AIX) still exist that haven't addressed it.

the problem with the program is that the call to signal at the beginning of the signal handler invokes item 2 from the preceding discussion--the kernel checks whether a child needs to be waited for(which is the case, since we're processing a SIGCLD signal), so it generates another call to the signal handler.
the signal handler calls signal, and the whole process starts over again.

to fix this program, we have to move the call to signal after the call to wait. By doing this, we call signal after fetching the child's termination status; the signal is gernerated again by the kernel only if some other child has since terminated.

the seconds value is the number of clock seconds in the future when the signal should be generated. when that time occurs, the signal is generated by the kernel although additional time could elapse before the process gets control to handle the signal, because of processor scheduling delays.

If the number of seconds until some previously set alarm is less than the argument then we should wait only until the existing alarm expires. If the previously set alarm will go off after ours, then before returning we should reset this alarm to occur at its designated time in the future.

earlier implementations of sleep looked like our program, with problems 1 and 2 corrected as described.

the implementations of sleep used setjmp and longjmp to avoid the race condition described in problem 3 of the previous example. A simple version of this function, called sleep2, is shown in N

The purpose of the sleep1 and sleep2 examples is to show the pitfalls in dealing naively with signals. the following sections will show ways around all these problems, so we can handle signals reliably, without interfering with other pieces of code.

the program in Figure 10.10 does this, reading one line from standard input and writing it to standard output.